---
author: Jafar Abdi
comments: false
date: 2019-09-11
layout: post
title: Dr. Mark Moll joins PickNik!
media_type: image
media_link: /assets/images/blog_posts/mark_moll_join_picknik/MarkMoll.jpg
description: Mark, CS senior research scientist Rice University, Mark brings new expertise and experience to the PickNik team
categories:
- MoveIt
- ROS
---

[//]: # (Image References)
[mark_moll]: /assets/images/blog_posts/mark_moll_join_picknik/MarkMoll.jpg
[line]: /assets/images/blog_posts/mark_moll_join_picknik/line.png


PickNik is excited to announce that Dr. Mark Moll has joined the team as a senior roboticist. In this new role, Dr. Moll will make sure that R&D at PickNik bridges the gap between purely academic research and industry needs. He will also be actively involved in raising research funding and growing the open source robotics community.

![mark_moll]

Mark Moll has worked in robotics for more than 20 years, with a focus on motion planning. He is leading the development of the [Open Motion Planning Library (OMPL)](https://ompl.kavrakilab.org), which is widely used in industry and academic research (often via [MoveIt](https://moveit.ros.org) / [ROS](https://www.ros.org)). He has over 80 peer-reviewed publications with research contributions in applied algorithms for problems in robotics and computational structural biology. He has extensive experience deploying novel algorithms on a variety of robotic platforms, ranging from NASA’s Robonaut2 to autonomous underwater vehicles and self-reconfigurable robots.

Mark Moll received an M.S. in Computer Science from the University of Twente in the Netherlands and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University. Most recently, he was a senior research scientist at Rice University. 

![line]

**Accelerate Your Robotics Development |** 
About [PickNik](https://picknik.ai/):  Robots are complex systems that require a wide breadth of expert knowledge spanning multiple disciplines, making robotics development extremely difficult and costly. Since 2015, PickNik’s mission has been to address this technical challenge while dramatically reducing development time for advanced robotic applications. To achieve this, PickNik supports and collaborates with the worldwide open source robotics movement, providing companies with cutting edge research and barrier-free open source software.

PickNik is rooted with a strong background in robotics theory combined with applied software experience to provide unique solutions. Robotics companies including Google, Amazon, Kindred, and many others are partnering with PickNik to develop robotic applications to address the toughest issues through software consulting, custom development, and other initiatives. By working together,  we can accomplish far more than by working alone.

If you would like more information please contact Rob Coleman at [projects@picknik.ai](mailto:projects@picknik.ai) 
